>> A rare Black Widow
star system has just been
discovered.
But it is behaving in
such a way that it, quote,
pushes the boundaries of
the evolutionary models.
This is Gaia News.
A unique and scarcely
seen star system
has recently been discovered.
According to
scientists at MIT, they
have found a Black Widow star
system about 3,000 light years
from Earth.
Just as a Black Widow
spider eats her mate,
these star systems
contain a pulsar,
which eats an orbiting object.
Mark Dantonio, astronomer
and Gaia News contributor,
explains.
>> What they are our systems
where there was previously
a giant star, a big,
massive star in the system.
And that star blew up.
And there's two
outcomes to these.
We call these a supernova.
The supernova can leave
a black hole behind
if the star is
sufficiently massive.
Or it can leave a
neutron star behind.
When these neutron stars
collapse like this and form,
sometimes, they
form with hot spots
usually coming out of their
north and south poles.
These are called pulsars,
but they're not always
going to be in a system
with other objects.
Sometimes, they're all alone.
In this particular
case, there seems
to be something
else in the system.
And just like we see in
nature where the Black Widow
spider eats its mate, so too
does the pulsar eat the planets
or the other stars that
are circling around it.
>> Exactly how does the
Black Widow eat a star?
>> Imagine an ice cube
sitting on a table.
And you hit the ice cube
with air from a fan.
Not much will happen.
But if you heat the
air in that fan,
like with a blow dryer
or even a heat gun,
you're going to watch
that ice cube start
to melt very rapidly.
And most of the
remains of an ice cube
are going to trail out
behind it in the direction
that the stream is coming
from that heat gun.
And that's kind of what
we see with this star.
You know, the pulsar is being
the heat gun effectively.
And the star is the ice cube.
And it's being
obliterated by the pulsar.
And material is
trailing behind it.
And as the star
orbits the pulsar,
it leaves this torus of
material around the pulsar
that is actually not transparent
to radio waves, the signals
that we look for when
we try to find a pulsar.
And that's what made this
object so different in a way
because it wasn't readily
seen in the radio spectrum.
It had to be seen in
the visual spectrum,
like we see with our eyes.
And that's kind of rare.
>> Kevin Burdge, lead
researcher of the study at MIT,
also noted this Black Widow
has the shortest known orbital
period of just 62 minutes.
This short orbit, quote,
pushes the boundaries
of evolutionary models.
What else can we take
away from this discovery?
>> Finding this object is
definitely going to change
our perspective on how
these objects interact.
Pulsars we know are really,
really deadly places to be.
And we'd never survive
being near a pulsar.
Don't get me wrong because that
outflow of energy from a pulsar
would basically fry you.
And this is something
that we have not
had a ringside seat
with, but we also now see
something very, very important.
And that is how a pulsar acts
on another nearby object.
We're getting to
see how that works.
And that interaction
is extremely important
because that's something
we've never seen before.
And hey, that's what
the universe is about.
Finding things you've
never seen before.
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.